---
layout: blog-post
title:  "And Back Again: Some Reflections on Reflecting"
date:   2013-10-20
categories: denmark-study-abroad
---

My original plan for these set of blog posts which constitute my reflection project for the purposes of the class I was officially enrolled in during my time in Denmark was to write one at the end of each of the four weeks we spent there. At the time I made that decision, it seemed a perfectly sensible way to divvy them up and I liked the idea of reflecting on the experience each week, as I was still immersed in it, rather than after the fact.

And, happily, this approach worked just fine during weeks one, two, and three. Each week, some theme or event seemed to organically percolate to the forefront of my brain by the Friday or Saturday, prepared to wait patiently until I wrote the week’s blog post on Sunday or Monday. As my fourth week in Denmark meandered to a close, however, no such theme came forward. By week four, I would like to imagine that I had settled in to life in Copenhagen so well that it all seemed a tad too mundane for blog material. This in itself was interesting, and I remember thinking so at the time, but again, it didn’t strike me as something I could write an interesting post about.

So, short story long, here I am, writing the final post, almost precisely a month after coming home. Thankfully, a couple of themes have emerged over this past month, though they might better be described as observations about the results of my month spent abroad.

Most notably, I’m a bit concerned by how quickly this month has passed compared to the previous month. I remember hearing at some point that the reason time appears to pass more slowly for kids than for adults is connected with the number of novel experiences kids have compared with the number of novel experiences adults have, and I think the same principle applied to my time in Copenhagen. Some “novel” things like having to establish a route back to the hostel from campus were not especially exciting, but not that I am home and the weeks are flying by (at the end of next week, fall quarter will be halfway over) I wonder if that novelty wasn’t one of the most valuable components of the whole study-abroad experience. And while I accept that there is an unavoidable amount of rather un-novel routine in the everyday life of most adults, I’d like to see if I can’t slow my weeks down a bit my re-introducing the novel every once in a while – grad school permitting, of course.

Secondly, and though it has already begun to fade somewhat, I have found myself wondering why some of the aspects of life in Copenhagen which made my month there so enjoyable couldn’t exist somewhere in the States. The most practical feature, if you will, I find myself lamenting is the peacefulness with which cyclists, pedestrians, cars, and other motorized forms of transport seemed to be able to co-exist. My bike route to school here at home is filled with substantially more uncertainty and defensiveness, and in general just feels so much riskier than my route to school in Copenhagen. And I don’t think it can be attributed simply to the presence or absence of bike-dedicated spaces, because it seemed to me to be the result of some deeper level of acceptance that people might choose any number of modes of transport, and all of them could be engaged in in such a manner that didn’t inherently impede the others. Perhaps I am incorrect in projecting this attitude onto the Danes, but whatever the underlying reason, biking in Copenhagen was a completely different experience than biking at home, and every time I have an uncomfortable encounter with a motorist or pedestrian on my bike, I miss it a little bit more.

To say that I would like to go back to Copenhagen someday is an understatement, though I have no idea what that trip might look like. I wouldn’t want to go back as a tourist, because that’s not the version of Copenhagen I find myself missing. If anything, I would like to go back and live as close to  the life of a local as possible – though perhaps I would want to learn more Danish than “Hi” and “Tak” first. Living in Copenhagen even as a rootless student gave me just enough of a glimpse into the city to want to really live there because, in many ways, I felt more at ease with the culture in Copenhagen than I do in many unfamiliar cities here in the States. And while that perception is of course heavily colored by the nature of my time there, it seems worth exploring further should I ever be fortunate enough to have the chance.
